{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red229\green235\blue242;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red252\green9\blue7;\red230\green236\blue242;\red252\green41\blue19;\red229\green235\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c91765\c93725\c96078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c15764\c0;\cssrgb\c92000\c93967\c96090;\cssrgb\c100000\c25745\c7993;\cssrgb\c91883\c93846\c96084;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16580\viewh10280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 L02T03\
\
Answers.txt\
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1. 	The "P" in HTTP means protocol. Explain in your own words what a protocol is. \
\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
According to MDN, a protocol is a set of rules and regulations that define how data is \'93exchanged within or between computers\'94 [MDN, 2023]. It contains specifications of format to make it possible for both computers to communicate effectively.\
\
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.   	 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
HTTP is built on top of which protocol? \cb1 \uc0\u8232  HTTP is built on top of TCP, \'93a TLS-encrypted connection\'94 [MDN, 2023]. It is a type of transport-layer protocol, namely the Transmission Control Protocol. The important characteristics of TCP are that a connection between the client and server are established before transmission of data commences. The data is also sent in the same order it was received in, and \'93is sent without errors or duplication\'94. [IMBm 2021]. The amount of data handled is scalable and only restricted by what the server itself can handle. [MDN, 2023]\
\
\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 3.   	\cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If a request is successful, what will the status code of the response be? \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
If a request is successful, the status code could be any 2xx code, depending on the specifics needing to be relayed to the client. A plain 200 code will relay that the request was received and processed according to the HTTP method used. A 201 or 204 status code would convey slightly more information. A 201 code, for example, would provide more information in the status, relaying that the POST or PUT method used in the request was successfully handled and a new resource has been created.[MDN, 2023]. A 204 status, for example, would detail that the request has been handles successfully, but that no resource has been sent to the client. This is helpful to reassure a client that all is as it should be, in case they were expecting some content to be returned through their request.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\cb3 4. 	What methods are the CRUD equivalents in HTTP? \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 CRUD, according to Freecodecamp, are the four basic methods a software application should be able to execute:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}create\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}read\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}update\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}delete\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
The HTTP equivalent methods are:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}create   \'97\'97 POST\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}read 	   \'97\'97 GET\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}update   \'97\'97 PUT or PATCH\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}delete    \'97\'97 DELETE\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
[Freecodecamp, 2022]\
\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\cb3 5. 	What is a stateless protocol? \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 A stateless protocol is a system of rules that does not keep track of the requests that came before or after one another. It handles each request independently. An HTTP protocol is an example of a stateless protocol. This is the opposite of a stateful protocol, which does keep track of each requests and evaluates and processes them in relation to each other.\
\
Therefore, a stateless protocol request would have to be specific in its result-set: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}eg. \'93Return all student surnames starting with letter \'91A\'92\'94, \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93Return all student surnames starting with letter \'91B\'92\'94, \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93Return all student surnames starting with letter \'91C\'92\'94, \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}etc\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
While a stateful protocol would permit the server to remember the \'93client\'92s position in the result-set\'94 [Hyperiondev, 2021], enabling a request to take this form:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	eg. `Return all student surnames starting with letter $\{letter\}`,\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}`Return all student surnames starting with the next letter of the alphabet`. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 [Hyperiondev, 2021]\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 6. 	Which of the following are valid MIME types? \
\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cf5 \cb6 a. text/time.  NOT VALID \cf2 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 b. image/jpeg VALID\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cf7 \cb8 c. text/javascript d. text/jsx   NOT VALID\cf2 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 e. image/psd VALID\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 f. text/calendar  VALID\
\
[IANA, 2023]\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 7. 	Which status message can you expect if a server does not allow you permission to request a specific resource? \cb1 \uc0\u8232 If you do not have permissions to request a specific resource, the server will return a 401 \'93Unauthorised\'94 or 403 \'93Forbidden\'94 status message. If you need to be logged in or have some sort of authorisation token that you did not submit with your HTTP request, the server will return the 401 status message to convey that it needs some sort of authentication of the user issuing the request. If the user is logged in, however, and is trying to access material beyond what s/he is permitted to (say, trying to change or grant something that only an admin of a website has the permissions for), then the status 403 will be issued, to explain to the user that they do not have permission to request that specific resource. [Webdevsimplified, 2020] [MDN, 2023]\u8232 \
\
\ul REFERENCES\ulnone \
\
MDN.2023. Protocol. Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Protocol\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 MDN.2023. An Overview of HTTP.  Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview\
MDN.2023. HTTP response status codes. Retrieved on 24 July 2023 https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status\
MDN.2023. HTTP messages.  Retrieved on 24 July 2023 https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Messages\
 IANA.2023. Media Types. Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml\
IBM.2023. TCP/IP TCP, UDP, and IP protocols.  Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at  https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/2.2.0?topic=internets-tcpip-tcp-udp-ip-protocols\
Hyperiondev.2021. Introduction to Network protocols and system architecture - HTTP and client-server. Retrieved on 24 July via shared dropbox folder\
Webdevsimplified. 2020. Learn HTTP status codes in 10 minutes. Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJa5CTIFj7U&ab_channel=WebDevSimplified\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Freecodecamp. 2022. CRUD Operations - What is CRUD? Retrieved on 24 July 2023 at https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/crud-operations-explained/\
}